DAI-Labor Berlin

Since its foundation, DAI-Labor of the Technical University of Berlin has been 
working on the development of agent technology and its applications in various 
domains like manufacturing, telecommunication, entertainment, and security. As a 
result of these works, DAI-Labor realized a new framework for the development of a
gent based systems. This framework comprehends a scalable and secure architecture 
and a runtime environment. It is complemented by a series of infrastructure services 
as well as a series of tools supporting the development of agent technology from 
analysis phase to development, testing and deployment. 

So far, DAI-Labor has developed a number of systems for the manufacturing sector. 
The project "CokoM" in which an agent based system for the control of distributed 
workshops was developed is an example for these applications. In the project "IAFA", 
which was started by the order of Siemens AG, a study aimed at answering the 
questions 'how should the holonic structures be implemented in manufacturing sector 
and how can the holons be realized as an agent operation'  was accomplished.

In the "INAVES" project a study about holonic structures used for modelling 
production processes was created, as well as the question how holons can be 
implemented as agents.

In the project "INAWES", a subproject of 'Production 2000+' with the partners 
Siemens AG, Group Schneider and Daimler Benz, the first prototype for the 
controlling of flexible production lines was developed and a demonstration was 
realized by the help of the model equipment in Untertürkheim. 

As seen from the given examples the DAI- Labor possesses an expertise of many years 
in agent architectures, frameworks, process models and test environments. 

In this project we would like to develop a modelling language based on holons as a 
part of the software development processes. Such a language should be tool-supported 
and allow the implementation as agents.  Additionally, we are also interested in the 
development of a process model for the realization of agent based systems in 
production sector as an engineering approach. Another aspect would be the 
development of the ontology engineering in this project. 

I will be glad if we could arrange the next meeting soon in Berlin, so that we can 
also concretize our contribution to the project. Furthermore also I can actively 
support the preparation of the proposal.

Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil. Sahin Albayrak
Technische Universität Berlin
Fakultät für Elektrotechnik und Informatik (Fakultät IV)
Fachgebiet Agententechnologien in betriebliche Anwendungen und der Telekommunikation (AOT) und DAI-Labor; Sekr. GOR 1-1, Franklinstraße 28/29, D-10587 Berlin
E-mail: Sahin@dai-lab.de
Tel.: +49 30 314 24943
Fax.: +49 30 314 21 799
 