The mission of IPC is to provide knowledge and initial tools for succesfull, safe 
and efficient migration of intelligent control techniques in a variety of production 
scenarios.

So far we are planning a contribution from the commission of 8mioEuro max. The total 
budget may vary because in the sixth framework different activities have different 
funding ratios. Each of the satellite projects are independently managed. We expect 
to have 2 Partners per satellite to be responsible and member of the core project 
team. Their main tasks are:

- to set-up a sub-consortium from the resources already committed 
- to formulate the satellites goals  
- to elaborate a workplan with the consortium
- to negotiate and supervise the budget for the activities.

A satellite may have a temporary sub-consortium of 10 partners and partners can be 
involved in different satellites; but they should have a clear focus of their 
activities in IPC.

For SMR the starting conditions are as follows:
Intelligent Automation requires the replacement of deterministic control sequences 
by a common negotiation scheme and individual decision algorithms. In the satellite 
Engineering Plattform a simulation system will be developed for modelling industrial 
architectures supplied by the satellite Industrial Application. There negotiation 
and decision making are empty shells. SMR is intended to fill this shells. As we 
know the knowlegde on principles on these, presumably mathematical, techniques is 
very underdeveloped and application experience in terms of controllability of these 
algorithms is not available yet.  

The required activities of SMR therefore are:

- research the principles of Negotiation and decision to control physical equipment
- Select and develop suitable algorithms according to the architectural and 
operational requirements of Industrial Application
- Adapt and integrate the algorithms in the plattform
- research and report the behaviour of the systems in respect to behaviour and 
performance

Beside this activities, the sub-group may develop optional tasks contributing to the 
mission of the project as long as they in the budget.

In the work methods of IPC training activities will play a mayor role. For the SMR 
this means that the partners will receive extensive instruction from the 
development and research satellites to be able to perform their tasks in 
coordination with the project.

Michael Hoepf 