PARAGON Ltd. was established in 1994 aiming to provide 
specialized research, technical and consulting services and to 
promote the transfer of technology from Universities and Research 
Institutes to the Industry.

PARAGON Ltd. combines the extensive knowledge of a group of 
engineers, all of them experts in their fields, and the capabilities of 
an efficient management team.  This structure gives PARAGON 
Ltd. the ability to provide management services, expert services, or 
participate successfully in R&D and technical projects.  Through its 
continuous participation in joint European projects, PARAGON Ltd. 
aims to stay at the edge of the technological advancement. Due to 
our continuous research efforts, PARAGON Ltd was selected to be 
included in the "beta-testing group" of the Community Research 
and Development Information Service (CORDIS).

The resources and expertise of PARAGON Ltd. are available for 
joint participation in European Commission funded projects or as 
services offered to industrial, governmental or other private 
agencies.

PARAGON Ltd is registered with the Chamber of Commerce.

Representations:
In order for PARAGON to be able to offer its high quality services, it 
is obvious that it has to have access to the top product-lines world-
wide. Therefore, through its well-established name in European 
research, PARAGON managed to secure exclusive representation 
of a number of well-known firms that excel in their sectors with their 
high-quality products.

Human Resources:
The personnel of PARAGON Ltd. consists of:
-Engineers, experts in their fields.
-Highly trained management staff with proven experience in the 
management and evaluation of projects
-Experienced personnel in software development
-Experienced personnel in hardware development
It should be again stated here that the personnel of PARAGON Ltd. 
has a great experience in the participation of both National and 
International R&D projects.

Apart from the permanently employed staff, PARAGON 
collaborates with a number of very capable external assistants-
scientists.  These collaborations enable PARAGON Ltd. to 
undertake very complex projects in the areas of specialization 
presented below:

1) Environment: 
a) Development and Implementation of Integrated Solutions in Noise Abatement using:
i) Passive Noise Control (Classic Noise Abatement Techniques)
ii) Active Noise Control (State-of-the-art Techniques for Low-Frequency Noise 
Abatement)
iii) Active Vibration Control (State-of-the-art Techniques for Low-Frequency Noise 
Abatement through the Reduction of Vibrations)
iv) Combinations of the above
b) Environmental Impact studies in the field of noise and vibration
c) Rational Use of Energy
i) Rational Use of Energy in Industries
ii) Rational Use of Energy in Buildings

2) Energy
a) Development and Implementation of Energy Integrated Solutions, using:
i) Wind Energy, Photovoltaics, Small Hydropower Plants, Biomass/Waste
b) Optimization of Production Plant Operation
c) Optimal Energy Use in Production Plants (Site-scale applications)

3) Technology Transfer
a) In All the Above Sectors by Education and Training
b) Technology Transfer of Industrial Processes Related Issues (Modern Processing 
Methods, etc.)

4) Software Development
a) Development and Implementation of Optimization Algorithms
i) Classic Optimization Methods
ii) Evolutionary Optimization Methods (Genetic Algorithms, Simulated Annealing, etc.)
b) Expert System Development
i) Classic (Rule-based) Expert Systems
ii) Artificial Neural Networks
c) Computational Fluid Mechanics
i) 2-D and 3-D Finite Difference Method Applications
ii) 2-D and 3-D Finite Element Analysis (FEA) Applications
iii) 2-D and 3-D Boundary Element Method Applications
iv) Commercial Software Applications

5) Hardware Development and Applications
a) Development of Controllers for Specific Applications
i) Active Noise and/or Vibration Control
ii) Industrial Automatic Controls
b) Signal Conditioning and Wiring
i) Measuring Applications
ii) Control Signals

