Another Proposal for the scope of the 
INTELLIGENT PRODUCTION CONTROL Scientific Methods and Research Satellite:

Work area adopted from Ińaki Maurtua [imaurtua@tekniker.es]

The aim is to develop computing methods for Decision Making on the shop
floor. This means to detect and control systems failures, degradation or
disturbances, and to restore an (almost) optimal system state (at least over
time).
Apart from systems availability, service concept includes security and
environmental concerns.

The objective is to develop methods that allow an intelligent service
assurance by including autonomous decision-making algorithms with learning
capabilities.


Activities

1. Decision making (following Simons Decision Making Process):

a) Intelligence 
- search for conditions that call for decisions (data gathering and failures, 
degradation or disturbances detection) 
- identify and define the problem (distinguishing between symptoms and problems) 

b) Design 
- inventing, developing, and analysing possible courses of action
- constructing a representative model (data gathering and failures, degradation or 
disturbances detection)
- generation of alternatives 
- validation of the model and generation of evaluation criteria

c) Choice
- selecting a course of action from those available
	
d) Implementation
- implementing the solution to the original problem
	

2. Learning, in order to automatically improve service assurance performance.

Typically there is a trade-off between reactivity and performance. To have a
reactive system it would be best to implement it in a decentralised way, but
with the overhead of massive communication.
To have a good performing system, it would be best to have a central place
where all information is available, and the best solution is calculated. (in
case of combinatorical problems (e.g. scheduling) this would mean to
generate a hughe set of solutions)

Time is a critical factor. In case of a system failure a reactive system is
necessary. In case of an up-and-running system, optimisation is the
objective.

Research is necessary to identify the right algorithms for the individual
classes of problems, and some methodology is missing to let the system be
both, reactive and performing. 


Knowledge areas:
Diagnosis algorithms, Predictive Maintenance, Reliability, Optimisation
Algorithms, Distributed Decision Making 


Technologies: 
Data mining, Neural networks, Fuzzy Logic, Knowledge Management, Case-based 
reasoning, Distributed Artificial Intelligence, Holonic Manufacturing
Systems, Stigmergic Algorithms (Ants)
