Another Proposal for the scope of the 
INTELLIGENT PRODUCTION CONTROL Scientific Methods and Research Satellite:

Objectives:
The objective is to develop computing methods for Decision Analysis in the shop 
floor. This will provide an intelligent service assurance by including autonomous 
decision analysis algorithms with learning, adaptive and optimisation capabilities. 
It will also provide detection and control of systems failures, degradation or 
disturbances, and to restore the system to an ideal state.

Methodology:
Decision Analysis (Intelligence, Design, Choice, Implementation, Learning)

a) Intelligence
- Search for conditions that call for decisions (data gathering and failures, 
degradation or disturbances detection).
- Identify and define the problem (distinguishing between symptoms and root cause 
problems).

b) Design
- Inventing, developing, and analysing possible courses of action
- Develop a set of self organising Decision Rules.
- Constructing a representative model data gathering and failures, degradation or 
disturbances detection.
- Generation of Evaluation Criteria
- Generation of Alternatives
- Development of a model (mapping) that combines Criteria and Alternatives taking 
into consideration interdependencies among them.

c) Choice
- Selecting a course of action from those available
- Validation of the model in terms of consistency.
- Develop sensitivity analysis (what if) scenarios.

d) Implementation
- Develop optimised methods to allocate resources.
- Implementing the solution to the original problem.

e) Learning
- In order to automatically improve service assurance performance, a knowledge base 
of previous cases needed to be established as “cases”.
- Matching criteria and algorithms are then need to be devised in order to sustain 
a continuous and adaptive learning environment.

Examples of Research Areas and Applications:

- Asset Management of Intelligent Manufacturing Maintenance Systems and Multiple 
Criteria Decision-Making. This research is concerned with the analysis of data 
related to machine failures and design and the development of Computerised 
Maintenance Management Systems (CMMSs) that model the manufacturing environment, 
collect data in real-time, perform relative comparisons and provide decision 
support to different levels within industrial enterprises. Techniques incorporated 
based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), and Fuzzy Logic Control (FLC).

- Analysis of existing data related to categorisation of failures and their eventual 
link to preventive schedules. Previous research has shown that documented Preventive 
Maintenance (PM) schedules are not implemented because they are too static and they 
do not reflect shop-floor realities and needs. Moreover, they are given a lower 
priority than fire-fighting situations and therefore, they never get implemented. 
Analysis of current maintenance practice will be carried out, in terms of data 
capture related to fault reporting and preventive measures. Initial attempts to 
model generic characterisation of failures and fault codes has led to the conclusion 
that the majority of failures tend to be categorised into broad categories such as 
mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and software. However, it was found 
that further sub-dividing of these categories will lead to industry and plant 
specific classifications. For example, under mechanical failures there might be 
axis drive, conveyor, gear box, fixture, etc. These categories will be arranged 
into a hierarchy of failure characterisation. For every failure event (signature) 
there will be a measure of significance in terms of frequency (number of times) and 
downtime (duration). These combined measures will help to assign relative weights 
of importance to the different types of failures. Next, weights will be used to 
prioritise PM schedules so that existing PMs can be ranked in an adaptive way. 
Knowledge of methods to categorise preventive schedules as well as failure modes 
will be important in designing a system linked to preventive maintenance databases. 
Techniques related to data mining and prioritisation will be incorporated.

- Data visualisation and its effect on reliability and machines performance. It is 
important to set adequate performance measures such as Mean Time Between Failures 
(MTBF) and Mean Time To Repair (MTTR) in order to monitor improvements in 
performance of assets (downtime) and skills of maintenance engineers (repair). 
Research will be carried out to understand failures by focusing on severity and rate 
of occurrence. In terms of severity, a fundamental question is “What is failure 
downtime?” In other words, at what level is the deterioration of state considered to 
be downtime? Data captured will provide guidance to identification of parameters 
that need to be monitored in an automated approach. The usage of Condition Based 
Monitoring (CBM) will be investigated in order to facilitate automated data capture 
of selected parameters. In terms of rate of occurrence, the concept of real- time 
data capturing and simulation of developed models on-line will be investigated. 
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) will be used in this process as deemed 
necessary. This will naturally lead to modelling and simulation of a pilot machine 
or a manufacturing system, where a manufacturing system production line is modelled 
and linked to a PLC (Programmable Logic Controller). The manufacturing system will 
be modelled and controlled using a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) 
system. A pilot study for developing such a model of one of the existing studied 
machines will be performed, but here the novelty is to try to simulate injected 
failures into the modeled system. Being able to monitor and accordingly respond in 
real time will provide an asset management model that is adaptive to shop floor 
realities and needs. As Charles Darwin has expressed it succinctly: “It is not the 
strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent, but the one most 
responsive to change”. In understanding failures in terms of severity and rate of 
occurrence, we are approaching a state of responsiveness. Also being able to 
understand and be ‘in control’ of failure events is one step nearer to the concepts 
of self-repair and self- maintenance; a desirable feature of Next Generation 
Manufacturing Paradigms.

- Trade-off between reactivity and performance. To have a self- organising adaptive 
system it would be best to implement it in a decentralised way, but with the 
overhead of massive communication. To have a good performing system, it would be 
best to have a central place where all information is available, and the best 
solution is calculated. (in case of combinatorial problems (e.g. scheduling) this 
would mean to generate a huge set of solutions). Time is a critical factor. In case 
of a system failure a reactive system is necessary. In case of an up-and- running 
system, optimisation is the objective. Research is necessary to identify the right 
algorithms for the individual classes of problems, and some methodology is missing 
to let the system be both, reactive and performing.

Knowledge areas: (Concepts, Algorithms, Technologies)

Concepts:
Predictive Maintenance, Reliability, Asset Management, Artificial Intelligence (AI), 
Holonic Manufacturing Systems (HMS), Reconfigurble Manufacturing Systems (RMS).

Algorithms:
Diagnosis algorithms, Optimisation Algorithms, Distributed Decision Making, 
Multiple Criteria Decision Making Algorithms, Resource Allocation Algorithms, 
Data mining algorithms, Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Fuzzy Logic Control (FLC), 
Knowledge Management, Case-Based Reasoning (CBR). The Analytic Hierarchy Process 
(AHP), The Analytic Network Process (ANP).

Technologies:
Programmable Logic Control (PLC), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) 
systems, Computerised Maintenance Management Systems (CMMS), Condition Based 
Monitoring (CBM) technologies.

Dr. Ashraf W. Labib (PhD, MSc, MBA, BSc) 
Senior Lecturer 
Manufacturing Division, 
Department of Mechanical, Aerospace & Manufacturing Engineering, 
UMIST (University of Manchester Institute of Science & Technology), 
P.O. Box 88 Manchester M60 1QD 
UK 
Email: ashraf.labib@umist.ac.uk 
Phone: + 161 200 3810 
Fax : + 161 200 3803